[ADD] SMS Marketing: Add configuration page (#17368)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/sms_marketing/sms_configuration.rst

===============
Basic SMS Setup
===============

Odoo **SMS Marketing** allows users to send SMS text messages in one of two ways:

#. Using Odoo's out-of-the-box :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)` service.
#. Using a third-party :doc:`Twilio integration <twilio>`.

The following documentation covers the configuration process for users to send SMS messages using
Odoo :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)`.

Built-in SMS Configuration
==========================

In Odoo, SMS text messaging is an :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)` service that sends messages
directly from the database using prepaid :ref:`IAP credits <in_app_purchase/credits>`.

> Each time a user sends an SMS message in Odoo, credits are deducted from the database. The pricing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time a user sends an SMS message in Odoo, credits are deducted from the database's IAP account. The pricing
```
It sounds odd to say database alone - but feel free to modify (or reject!(

of the message depends on the destination and number of characters in the message. See `Odoo SMS -
FAQ <https://iap-services.odoo.com/iap/sms/pricing#sms_faq_01>`_ for a list of prices per country.

The built-in SMS option allows users to send messages immediately with minimal configuration. Users
needing more extensive configuration or adhering to stricter compliance regulations (e.g., in

> US/Canada) may use Twilio instead, although pricing may vary from the built-in option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in SMS option allows users to send messages immediately with minimal configuration.

.. :tip:
Users needing more extensive configuration or that must adhere to stricter compliance regulations (e.g., in the US or Canada) may use Twilio instead, although pricing may vary from the built-in option.
```
Seems important enough to call out in an admonition clock (I don't htink I formatted it right!)

Register SMS account
--------------------

> First-time users of the SMS service must register an SMS account through the :abbr:`IAP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before SMS messages can be sent, an SMS account must be registered through the :abbr:`IAP
```
Just rewording, totally optional

(In-app-purchases)` service and purchase the required credits needed to send SMS messages.

To register an SMS account, navigate to the :menuselection:`Settings app --> Contacts section`.
Under the :guilabel:`Send SMS` field, make sure the :guilabel:`Send via Odoo` option is selected.

> Then, click :guilabel:`Manage Service & Buy Credits` to open the SMS account settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register an SMS account, open the **Settings** app and scroll to the *Contacts* section.
Under the :guilabel:`Send SMS` field, make sure the :guilabel:`Send via Odoo` option is selected.
Then, click :guilabel:`Manage Service & Buy Credits` to open the SMS account settings page.
```
Only because the menu selection with arrows should only be used to call out specific steps in the top menu (example, Sales app > Quotations > Quotations, etc. So when it's a section, you want them ot scroll down since they are not clicking everything.

Reviewer: Also you can add the right arrow icon before the 'buy credits'. I think adding all the icons helps people find things easier, since they can look for imagery with the words.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Send via Odoo` only appears if the **Twilio** module is installed. An additional
   :guilabel:`Send via Twilio` option also appears.

.. image:: sms_configuration/sms-account-settings.png
   :alt: Settings page for setting up an SMS account in Odoo.

> For first-time users, a highlighted warning message appears at the top of the page. Click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For first-time users, a highlighted warning message appears at the top of the page, indicating the account is not registered. Click
```

:icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Register` next to the message to register an SMS account.

On the :guilabel:`Register Account` pop-up window, enter a mobile phone number to receive an SMS

> verification code. Once entered, click :guilabel:`Send verification code`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Register` next to the message to register an SMS account, and a  *Register Account* pop-up window appears.  Enter a mobile phone number to receive an SMS
verification code. Once entered, click :guilabel:`Send verification code`.
```
Pop-ups get italics. Also, I like to say 'click this then this happens - so if a pop-up appears, I try to mention it in the same sentence.

After receiving the code, enter it in the :guilabel:`Verification Code` field. Then, click
:guilabel:`Register` to continue.

> On the :guilabel:`Choose your sender name` pop-up window, enter a sender name between 3 and 11

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the *Choose your sender name* pop-up window, enter a sender name between 3 and 11
```

> alphanumeric characters. Once set, this name cannot be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alphanumeric characters. Once set, this name **cannot** be modified.
```
this could be put in an important admonition, since if you can't chagne it.. yikes, lol

Once entered, click :guilabel:`Set sender name`. Alternatively, click :guilabel:`Skip for now` to
continue without setting a sender name.

.. note::
   If a sender name is not set, SMS messages are sent from a short code. A :icon:`oi-arrow-right`
   :guilabel:`Set Sender Name` option appears on the SMS account settings page for the user to
   configure when desired.

Purchase credits
----------------

> Users can purchase additional credits on the SMS account settings page by clicking

Reviewer: 2 things - I couldn't actually do the test - it didn't work (I used my number and eveyrthing) so I'll assume that's an Odoo issue. So I cannot verify the steps.

Second, when starting a new section, sometimes it's nice to give them all the info, as if they jumped to that part. So I woudl add where/how to get here. 

Example:
To purchase additional credits, navigate to (enter directions) then click...

Author: Testing SMS was annoying because apparently sending messages to US/Canada is unsupported due to various regulations. I used a test phone number from Germany in a trial database, which seemed to work.

:icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Buy Credit` next to the :guilabel:`Balance` field.

The user is then directed to a :guilabel:`Buy credits for SMS` page on the :abbr:`IAP (In-app
purchases)` portal, displaying various credit packs available for purchase.

.. image:: sms_configuration/sms-iap-buy-credits.png
   :alt: Buy SMS Credits page in the Odoo IAP Portal.

To purchase credits, click :guilabel:`Buy` under the desired credit pack. Then, follow the prompts
on the Odoo payment page to finalize the order.

Testing
=======

After configuration, users can test that the SMS service works by sending a test marketing campaign

> message or by sending an SMS directly from a contact form.

Reviewer: IF you want, you can do this super cool (i think) tricke. When saying yo ucan do something multiple ways, adn the ways are in their own sub-sections below, I create anchors for the sub-sectoins, and make ref links in the intro sentence. Make sense? So they cna click 'directly from a contact form' and it jumps to that specific section. TOTALLY OPTIONAL!

Author: great suggestion... adding those.

Marketing campaign test message
-------------------------------

To send a test SMS message, open or create a new SMS :doc:`marketing campaign <marketing_campaigns>`
in the **SMS Marketing** app. Create a message in the :guilabel:`SMS Content` tab, then click

> :guilabel:`Test`.

Reviewer: This felt very short and incomplete. I wasn't sure where to click - so I woudl expand this. Doesn't need much, but every click should be explicitly stated.

Example - 
To send a test SMS message, open the **SMS Marketing app**. Click on an existing campaign, or create a new one (have the 'create a new one' be a link to the documentaiton).  Ensure there is text in the *SMS Content* tab of the campaign page, then click the :guilabel:`Test` botton. A *Test mailing* pop-up window apears. Enter the phone numbers....

Only because I was not sure exactly where/what to click, etc. It can just be fleshed out a touch. I write assuming the person knows nothing about Odoo - that's a good perspective

.. image:: sms_configuration/sms-test-campaign.png
   :alt: View of an SMS test in Odoo SMS Marketing.

Enter a test mobile number on the :guilabel:`Test Mailing` pop-up window, then click :guilabel:`Send
Test`. The user can then verify that an SMS message has been sent.

.. note::
   In the *Settings* tab of the campaign form, the user can choose to include an opt-out link in the
   SMS message. Note that this link counts towards the pricing of the message.

Contact form test message
-------------------------

Alternatively, users can also test SMS messages by sending them directly through a contact form. See

> the :doc:`marketing_campaigns` documentation for more information.

Reviewer: Same as above - there is almost no info here. I'd say, 'Open the **Contacts** app, and click on a contact record. 

I'll be honest  - I am not sure how to send them a test, except for actually SENDING them a rela message. But yes, flesh this part out a bit.

===============

> Basic SMS Setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basic SMS setup
```

===============

Odoo **SMS Marketing** allows users to send SMS text messages in one of two ways:

#. Using Odoo's out-of-the-box :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)` service.
#. Using a third-party :doc:`Twilio integration <twilio>`.

The following documentation covers the configuration process for users to send SMS messages using
Odoo :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)`.

> Built-in SMS Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Built-in SMS configuration
```

==========================

In Odoo, SMS text messaging is an :abbr:`IAP (In-app purchases)` service that sends messages
directly from the database using prepaid :ref:`IAP credits <in_app_purchase/credits>`.

Each time a user sends an SMS message in Odoo, credits are deducted from the database's IAP account.
The pricing of the message depends on the destination and number of characters in the message. See
`Odoo SMS - FAQ <https://iap-services.odoo.com/iap/sms/pricing#sms_faq_01>`_ for a list of prices
per country.

> The built-in SMS option allows users to send messages immediately with minimal configuration.

Reviewer 2: From a user perspective, I'm a little lost. Does the "built-in SMS option" refer to something the user needs to enable or configure? If so, where is this done?

Also, is this in Odoo SMS or IAP? or is it through the third-party app?

Reviewer 2: After reading the sections below, I'm realizing maybe the "built-in SMS option" was referring to the steps you'll describe below?

If that's the case, we can try rewording this to sound more like a transition to instructions that follow!

```suggestion
The built-in SMS option allows users to send messages immediately with minimal configuration. The following steps explain how to set it up and use it.
```

register an SMS account, and a *Register Account* pop-up window appears. Enter a mobile phone number
to receive an SMS verification code. Once entered, click :guilabel:`Send verification code`.

After receiving the code, enter it in the :guilabel:`Verification Code` field. Then, click
:guilabel:`Register` to continue.

On the *Choose your sender name* pop-up window, enter a sender name between 3 and 11 alphanumeric
characters. Once set, this name **cannot** be modified.

Once entered, click :guilabel:`Set sender name`. Alternatively, click :guilabel:`Skip for now` to
continue without setting a sender name.

.. note::
   If a sender name is not set, SMS messages are sent from a short code. A :icon:`oi-arrow-right`
   :guilabel:`Set Sender Name` option appears on the SMS account settings page for the user to
   configure when desired.

Purchase credits
----------------

To purchase additional credits, navigate to the SMS account settings page from the previous section.
To do this, open the **Settings** app, scroll to the *Contacts* section, ensure that :guilabel:`Send
via Odoo` is selected under *Send SMS*, then click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Manage Service

> & Buy Credits`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To purchase credits, open the **Settings** app and scroll to the *Contacts* section. Ensure that :guilabel:`Send
via Odoo` is selected under *Send SMS*, then click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Manage Service
& Buy Credits`.
```
This is a personal preference and not a rule, but I generally like to keep the sections somewhat "independent" - so I avoid any reference to a previous step done, or plac,e since we don't know where the customer will be at any given point  in a doc. If they are like me, they search a topic, and jup around - so that's why i like ot do everything form start to finish (Open this app, go here, do that) - even if you were previously on that app, becxause the reader may not be. Make sense? But totally optional!!

On the SMS account settings page, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Buy Credit` next to the
:guilabel:`Balance` field.

The user is then directed to a :guilabel:`Buy credits for SMS` page on the :abbr:`IAP (In-app
purchases)` portal, displaying various credit packs available for purchase.

.. image:: sms_configuration/sms-iap-buy-credits.png
   :alt: Buy SMS Credits page in the Odoo IAP Portal.

To purchase credits, click :guilabel:`Buy` under the desired credit pack. Then, follow the prompts
on the Odoo payment page to finalize the order.

.. note::
   The SMS account settings page can also be accessed by navigating to the **Settings** app,
   scrolling to the *Contacts* section, then clicking :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`View My
   Services` under *Odoo IAP*.

   On the resulting dashboard of IAP accounts in the database, select :guilabel:`SMS` to open the
   SMS account settings page.

Testing
=======

After configuration, users can test that the SMS service works by sending a :ref:`test marketing
campaign message <sms_marketing/sms_configuration/testing/campaign-test>` or by sending an SMS

> :ref:`directly from a contact form <sms_marketing/sms_configuration/testing/contact-test>`.

Reviewer: YAAAAAAS!!!!! =D

.. _sms_marketing/sms_configuration/testing/campaign-test:

Marketing campaign test message
-------------------------------

To send a test SMS message, open the **SMS Marketing** app. Select an existing SMS marketing

> campaign or :doc:`create a new one <marketing_campaigns>` by clicking :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
campaign or :doc:`create a new one <marketing_campaigns>`.
```
I think it's best to end here, since the instrucitons for how to do it will be oin the ink, so I odn't want to say 'click new' then the next section is after the cmapaign is created. But optional - that's a "me" thing, too =)
